---
layout: post
title: "Sing!"
date: 2021-6-7
---

## Sing!

<p style="text-align: center;">
Sing, sing with all of your voice!</br>
With excitement for life</br>
Be glad and rejoice.</br>
Sing out the notes</br>
With alacrity and precision—</br>
Sing to the silence</br>
Your hopeful vision.</br>

Sing, sing with all of your mind!</br>
May the meaning of your words</br>
Be not left behind.</br>
Sing sweetly the story</br>
Of struggle and of love—</br>
Sing with your understanding</br>
Of life’s promise from above.

Sing, sing with all of your heart!</br>
Be free of your façade</br>
And let your passion take part.</br>
Sing with deep expression</br>
Both your bitterness and elation—</br>
Sing unto the emptiness</br>
Your every deep sensation.

Sing, sing with all of your *self*!</br>
Shake off your rusty shackles</br>
And stand firm amidst the mael’</br>
Sing *your* song</br>
Your own inimitable tone—</br>
Sing to *your* rhythm</br>
And know you are not alone.

</p>


## Discussion

I wrote this in high school to future members of the choir and choral ensemble. I posted it on the wall on one of the last days of school as a call to future generations that would come through that room as I had. Music was at the heart of my high school experience and I was sad to leave band and choir behind. As a prominent member and leader in all of my school's music programs, I felt a connection to the younger students coming behind me.

The poem is broken into 4 stanzas, each compelling the audience in turn to sing with all of their voice, mind, heart, and self. Choir for me wasn't about singing with my voice alone and I hoped that others would also put their whole soul into it as I had. The energy in choral ensemble was a rare gift -- being surrounded by people who share a passion and talent and creating magic together that transcended the mere sounds and notes. 